Security JWT - best practices blog post (#936)
kyma-project/website: content/blog-posts/2023-01-04-jwt-best-practices/index.md

---
title: "Issuing JWT security best practices"
author: 
  name: "Karol Szwaj, Istio and API Gateway @Kyma"
tags:
  - Kyma
  - Service Mesh
  - Security

redirectFrom:
  - "/blog/jwt-best-practices"
---

I'm part of the Kyma team working on Istio and API Gateway features. In this blog post, I'm going to discuss best practices for issuing JSON Web Tokens (JWTs).

## Overview

JSON Web Tokens (JWTs) are a popular way to securely transmit information between parties. Because the tokens can be signed and encrypted to ensure their integrity and confidentiality, they're often used for authentication and authorization purposes.
As the use of JSON Web Tokens (JWTs) is becoming more widespread, it's important to follow best practices to ensure that the tokens are secure and can be trusted. The Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF) has published a set of best practices for JWTs in RFC 8725. In this blog post, I'd like to highlight some key points from the RFC to help you issue secure JWTs.

## Best practices

### Set the **alg** header parameter in JWSs

> Signed JWTs carry an explicit indication of the signing algorithm in the `alg` header parameter. However, this can lead to vulnerabilities if the algorithm is not properly validated. For example, an attacker might change the algorithm to `none`. Some libraries might trust this value and *validate* the JWT without checking its signature. To mitigate this risk, ensure that the `alg` or `enc` JWT header specifies the same algorithm that is used for the cryptographic operation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Signed JWTs carry an explicit indication of the signing algorithm in the **alg** header parameter. However, this can lead to vulnerabilities if the algorithm is not properly validated. For example, an attacker might change the algorithm to `none`. Some libraries might trust this value and *validate* the JWT without checking its signature. To mitigate this risk, ensure that the **alg** or **enc** JWT header specifies the same algorithm that is used for the cryptographic operation.
```

> The `alg` (algorithm) header parameter in JSON Web Signature (JWS) specifies the cryptographic algorithm used to sign the JWT. It's important to ensure that the JWT is signed with the intended algorithm. The server should also verify that the algorithm is on the allowlist of approved algorithms and reject any JWTs with an unrecognized algorithm.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **alg** (algorithm) header parameter in JSON Web Signature (JWS) specifies the cryptographic algorithm used to sign the JWT. It's important to ensure that the JWT is signed with the intended algorithm. The server should also verify that the algorithm is on the allowlist of approved algorithms and reject any JWTs with an unrecognized algorithm.
```

> ### Set the `enc` header parameter in JWEs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Set the **enc** header parameter in JWEs
```

> Similarly to the `alg` header in JWSs, the `enc` (encryption) header parameter in a JSON Web Encryption (JWE) specifies the cryptographic algorithm used to encrypt a JWT. It's important to ensure that a JWT is encrypted with the intended algorithm. The server should also verify that the algorithm is on the allowlist of approved algorithms and reject any JWTs with an unrecognized algorithm.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Similarly to the **alg** header in JWSs, the **enc** (encryption) header parameter in a JSON Web Encryption (JWE) specifies the cryptographic algorithm used to encrypt a JWT. It's important to ensure that a JWT is encrypted with the intended algorithm. The server should also verify that the algorithm is on the allowlist of approved algorithms and reject any JWTs with an unrecognized algorithm.
```

Use secure key management practices, such as rotating keys regularly and protecting them from unauthorized access. To prevent unauthorized access, use strong passwords or passphrases for symmetric keys and protect private keys with appropriate permissions and access controls. 
Cryptographic keys used in JWTs should be of sufficient size to ensure their security. For example, the minimum recommended size for an RSA key is 2048 bits. Use keys of adequate size to avoid potential vulnerabilities.

### Avoid compression before encryption

Data should not be compressed before encryption, as it can reveal information about the plaintext and weaken the security of a JWT.

### Use only UTF-8 encoding

JWTs should only use UTF-8 encoding because other encodings, such as UTF-16 and UTF-32, are not allowed by the latest JSON standard (RFC 8259). Ensure that each JWT is properly encoded and not susceptible to injection attacks.

### Always use HTTPS

JWTs should be transmitted over HTTPS to ensure their confidentiality and integrity. Using HTTP instead of HTTPS can leave JWTs vulnerable to man-in-the-middle attacks.

### Use short expiration times 

> JWTs should have short expiration times to reduce the window of opportunity for attackers to use them. The short expiration times also help mitigate the impact of a JWT being compromised. It's generally advised not to set the expiration time to more than a few hours. You can adjust it using the `exp` (expiration) claim in a JWT.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
JWTs should have short expiration times to reduce the window of opportunity for attackers to use them. The short expiration times also help mitigate the impact of a JWT being compromised. It's generally advised not to set the expiration time to more than a few hours. You can adjust it using the **exp** (expiration) claim in a JWT.
```

> JWTs should have short expiration times to reduce the window of opportunity for attackers to use them. The short expiration times also help mitigate the impact of a JWT being compromised. It's generally advised not to set the expiration time to more than a few hours. You can adjust it using the **exp** (expiration) claim in a JWT.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
JWTs should have short expiration times to reduce the window of opportunity for attackers to use them. The short expiration times also help mitigate the impact of a JWT being compromised. It's generally advised not to set the expiration time to more than a few hours. You can adjust it using the `exp` (expiration) claim in a JWT.
```

### Use JWT claims appropriately

Use JWT claims appropriately and only include the necessary amount of information. For example, don't include sensitive information like passwords in a JWT.

### Prevent replay attacks

> Replay attacks occur when an attacker intercepts a JWT and tries to use it multiple times to gain unauthorized access to protected resources. To prevent this type of attack, consider using the `jti` (JWT ID) claim. This claim is a unique identifier that can be used to prevent a JWT from being used more than once.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Replay attacks occur when an attacker intercepts a JWT and tries to use it multiple times to gain unauthorized access to protected resources. To prevent this type of attack, consider using the **jti** (JWT ID) claim. This claim is a unique identifier that can be used to prevent a JWT from being used more than once.
```

> Replay attacks occur when an attacker intercepts a JWT and tries to use it multiple times to gain unauthorized access to protected resources. To prevent this type of attack, consider using the **jti** (JWT ID) claim. This claim is a unique identifier that can be used to prevent a JWT from being used more than once.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Replay attacks occur when an attacker intercepts a JWT and tries to use it multiple times to gain unauthorized access to protected resources. To prevent this type of attack, consider using the `jti` (JWT ID) claim. This claim is a unique identifier that can be used to prevent a JWT from being used more than once.
```

> You can also prevent replay attacks by including a `nonce` in authenticated requests.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can also prevent replay attacks by including a `none` in authenticated requests.
```

Author: it is nonce

> You can also prevent replay attacks by including a `nonce` in authenticated requests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also prevent replay attacks by including a **nonce** in authenticated requests.
```

---
title: "Issuing JWT security best practices"
author: 
  name: "Karol Szwaj, Istio and API Gateway @Kyma"
tags:
  - Kyma
  - Service Mesh
  - Security

redirectFrom:
  - "/blog/jwt-best-practices"
---

> ## Introduction

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

The algorithm used to sign a JWT should be appropriate for the level of security needed. As an example RSA-PKCS1 v1.5 encryption algorithms should be avoided.

### Remember about key management practices

JWTs rely on the security of the underlying cryptographic keys. Keyed MAC algorithms can be vulnerable to brute-force attacks if they are used to sign tokens with weak symmetric keys, such as human-memorizable passwords. To mitigate this risk, it's generally a good idea to avoid using symmetric signing whenever possible. Nowadays, there are probably not many use cases where you would have to use symmetric signing instead of asymmetric. If symmetric signing must be used,  make sure that human-memorizable passwords are not directly used as the key to a keyed-MAC algorithm like HS256.
It's important to use secure key management practices, such as rotating keys on a regular basis and protecting keys from unauthorized access. This includes using strong passwords or passphrases for symmetric keys and protecting private keys with appropriate permissions and access controls. 

> Cryptographic keys used in JWTs should be of sufficient size to ensure their security. For example, the minimum recommended size for an RSA key is 2048 bits. It's important to use keys of adequate size to avoid potential vulnerabilities.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Cryptographic keys used in JWTs should be of sufficient size to ensure their security. For example, the minimum recommended size for an RSA key is 2048 bits. Use keys of adequate size to avoid potential vulnerabilities.
```

### Avoid compression before encryption

> Data should not be compressed before encryption, as it can reveal information about the plaintext and weaken the security of the JWT.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Data should not be compressed before encryption, as it can reveal information about the plaintext and weaken the security of a JWT.
```

### Use only UTF-8 encoding

JWTs should only use UTF-8 encoding, as other encodings such as UTF-16 and UTF-32 are not allowed by the latest JSON standard (RFC 8259). It's also important to ensure that the JWT is properly encoded and not susceptible to injection attacks.

> ### Use of HTTP Instead of HTTPS

Reviewer 3: Since the statement behind this paragraph is to always use HTTPS I would also change the title of the paragraph to _**Always use HTTPS**_.

Author: Thanks! Good catch :)

JWTs should be transmitted over HTTPS to ensure their confidentiality and integrity. Using HTTP instead of HTTPS can leave JWTs vulnerable to man-in-the-middle attacks.

### Use short expiration times 

> JWTs should have short expiration times to reduce the window of opportunity for attackers to use them. This also helps mitigate the impact of a JWT being compromised. It's generally a good idea to set the expiration time to no more than a few hours. This can be done using the "exp" (expiration) claim in the JWT.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
JWTs should have short expiration times to reduce the window of opportunity for attackers to use them. The short expiration times also help mitigate the impact of a JWT being compromised. It's generally advised not to set the expiration time to more than a few hours. You can adjust it using the `exp` (expiration) claim in a JWT.
```

> ### Include a "nonce" in authenticated requests

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Include a nonce in authenticated requests
```

> A "nonce" is a random value that is used only once. Including a nonce in authenticated requests can help prevent replay attacks, in which an attacker captures a JWT and attempts to use it multiple times.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A nonce is a random value that is used only once. Including a nonce in authenticated requests can help prevent replay attacks, in which an attacker captures a JWT and attempts to use it multiple times.
```

### Use JWT claims appropriately

> Make sure to use JWT claims appropriately and only include the minimum amount of information necessary. For example, don't include sensitive information like passwords in the JWT.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use JWT claims appropriately and only include the necessary amount of information. For example, don't include sensitive information like passwords in a JWT.
```

### Prevent replay attacks

> Replay attacks can occur when an attacker intercepts a JWT and tries to use it multiple times to gain unauthorized access to protected resources. To prevent this type of attack,consider using the "jti" (JWT ID) claim. This claim is a unique identifier that can be used to prevent a JWT from being used more than once.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Replay attacks occur when an attacker intercepts a JWT and tries to use it multiple times to gain unauthorized access to protected resources. To prevent this type of attack, consider using the `jti` (JWT ID) claim. This claim is a unique identifier that can be used to prevent a JWT from being used more than once.
```

> Another idea would be to include a "nonce" in authenticated requests. A "nonce" is a random value that is used only once and including it also can prevent this type of attack.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also prevent replay attacks by including a nonce in authenticated requests.

### Follow good security practices

> Finally, it's important to follow good security practices in general to protect against threats to JWTs. This includes keeping your software and libraries up to date, following secure coding practices, and properly configuring your servers and infrastructure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, follow good security practices in general to protect JWTs against threats. Keep your software and libraries up to date, follow secure coding practices, and properly configure your servers and infrastructure.
```

## Conclusion

> In summary, following these best practices can help ensure that your JWTs are secure and can be trusted. It's important to properly validate algorithms, use strong keys, verify public keys, and use HTTPS to transmit JWTs. It's also a good idea to regularly review and update your JWT issuance process to stay up-to-date with the latest security practices.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Following these best practices can help ensure that your JWTs are secure and can be trusted. Remember to properly validate algorithms, use strong keys, verify public keys, and use HTTPS to transmit JWTs. Regularly review and update your JWT issuance process to stay up-to-date with the latest security practices.
```
